[Merged by Bors] - Docs new landing page (#573)
stackabletech/kafka-operator: docs/modules/kafka/pages/index.adoc

:keywords: Stackable Operator, Apache Kafka, Kubernetes, operator, SQL, engineer, broker, big data, CRD, StatefulSet, ConfigMap, Service, Druid, ZooKeeper, NiFi, S3, demo, version

The Stackable Operator for Apache Kafka is an operator that can deploy and manage https://kafka.apache.org/[Apache Kafka] clusters on Kubernetes. 
// what is Kafka?
Apache Kafka is a distributed streaming platform designed to handle large volumes of data in real-time. It is commonly used for real-time data processing, data ingestion, event streaming, and messaging between applications.

== Getting started

Follow the xref:kafka:getting_started/index.adoc[] which will guide you through installing The Stackable Kafka and ZooKeeper Operators, setting up ZooKeeper and Kafka and testing your Kafka using kcat.

== Resources

The _KafkaCluster_ custom resource defines all your Kafka cluster configuration. It defines a single `broker` xref:concepts:roles-and-role-groups.adoc[role].

image::kafka_overview.drawio.svg[A diagram depicting the Kubernetes resources created by the operator.]

> For every xref:concepts:roles-and-role-groups.adoc#_role_groups[role group] in the `broker` role the Operator creates a StatefulSet. Multiple Services are created, one at role level, one per role group as well as one for every individual Pod, to allow accessing the whole Kafka cluster, parts of it or even individual brokers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For every xref:concepts:roles-and-role-groups.adoc#_role_groups[role group] in the `broker` role the Operator creates a StatefulSet. Multiple Services are created - one at role level, one per role group as well as one for every individual Pod - to allow access to the entire Kafka cluster, parts of it or just individual brokers.
```

For every StatefulSet (role group) a ConfigMap is deployed containing a `log4j.properties` file for xref:usage-guide/logging.adoc[logging] configuration and a `server.properties` file containing the whole Kafka configuration which is derived from the KafkaCluster resource.

> The Operator creates a xref:concepts:service_discovery.adoc[] for the whole KafkaCluster which references the Service for the whole cluster. Other operators use this ConfigMap to connect to a Kafka cluster simply by name and it can also be used by custom third party applications to find the endpoint to connect to the kafka.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Operator creates a xref:concepts:service_discovery.adoc[] for the whole KafkaCluster which references the Service for the whole cluster. Other operators use this ConfigMap to connect to a Kafka cluster simply by name and it can also be used by custom third party applications to find the connection endpoint.
```

== Dependencies

> Kafka requires xref:zookeeper:index.adoc[Apache ZooKeeper] for coordination purposes (Although it will not be needed in the future as it will be replaced with a https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/KAFKA/KIP-500%3A+Replace+ZooKeeper+with+a+Self-Managed+Metadata+Quorum[built-in solution]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kafka requires xref:zookeeper:index.adoc[Apache ZooKeeper] for coordination purposes (it will not be needed in the future as it will be replaced with a https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/KAFKA/KIP-500%3A+Replace+ZooKeeper+with+a+Self-Managed+Metadata+Quorum[built-in solution]).
```

== Connections to other products

> Since Kafka often takes on a bridging role, many other products connect to it. In the <<demos, demos>> below you will find example data pipelines that use xref:nifi:index.adoc[Apache NiFi with the Stackable Operator] to write to Kafka and xref:nifi:index.adoc[Apache Druid with the Stackable Operator] to read from Kafka. But you can also connect xref:spark-k8s:index.adoc[Apache Spark] or custom Jobs written in various languages to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Kafka often takes on a bridging role, many other products connect to it. In the <<demos, demos>> below you will find example data pipelines that use xref:nifi:index.adoc[Apache NiFi with the Stackable Operator] to write to Kafka and xref:nifi:index.adoc[Apache Druid with the Stackable Operator] to read from Kafka. But you can also connect using xref:spark-k8s:index.adoc[Apache Spark] or with a custom Job written in various languages.
```
